Module 1: Introduction to Git
What is Git?
It is a version control system designed to track changes in source code over time. It essentially acts as a safety net, allowing developers to roll back to previous versions of a project if something goes wrong.

Why do we use it?
It is essential for teamwork, as it allows multiple developers to collaborate on the same codebase simultaneously without overwriting each other's work. It maintains a complete history of the project, serving as a reliable backup and recovery system.

Git vs. GitHub vs. GitLab:

Git: The actual tool installed locally on a computer to manage version history.

GitHub / GitLab: Cloud-based platforms used to host these repositories online so teams can share code and collaborate easily.

Module 2: Installation and Setup
Installation:
Downloaded and set up the official Git package on the local system.

Initial Configuration:
Verified the installation and set up global user identity details using the following commands:

git --version (To check the installed version)

git config --global user.name "Your Name" (To set the commit author name)

git config --global user.email "your@email.com" (To connect the developer email)

Module 3: Basic Git Commands
Initializing a Repository (git init): Used to start a new, empty Git repository inside a project folder.

Checking Status (git status): Shows the current state of the working directory (which files are modified, untracked, or staged).

Staging Files (git add .): Prepares all modified and new files to be included in the next snapshot.

Committing Changes (git commit -m "message"): Permanently saves the staged snapshot to the project history with a descriptive message.

Viewing History (git log / git log --oneline): Displays the chronological list of all previous commits to track the project's evolution.

Viewing Changes (git diff): Shows the exact line-by-line differences between the current code and the last saved version.

Module 4: Branching Mechanics
What is a Branch?
A branch is an isolated environment within the repository. It allows a developer to build new features or test ideas without disturbing the stable, main codebase.

Creating a Branch (git branch feature-name): Sets up a new independent line of development.

Switching Branches (git checkout / git switch): Moves the working environment from the current branch to another one.

Creating & Switching Together (git checkout -b feature-name): A shortcut command that creates a new branch and immediately switches to it.

Merging Branches (git merge feature-name): Integrates the completed features and changes from a side branch back into the main branch.

Deleting Branches (git branch -d feature-name): Cleans up the repository by removing a branch after its changes have been successfully merged.